You can use Apple Motion to create amazing
animated text effects.
Check out this tutorial on how to make a title
that writes on like a cloud of fog.
First, open the project pane window by using
the keyboard shortcut command 4.
Then, open the timing pane by using the keyboard
shortcut command 7.
Now go ahead and click on the text tool within
the toolbar area located at the top of the
canvas window.
Go ahead and type a title within the canvas.
A heads up display window should appear for
the text object so you can pick a font and
text size.
Move over to the project pane, and right click
on the Fogwriter layer within the Layers tab
to duplicate the layer.
Go ahead and give the new layer a new name
called 'Fog Layer'
Navigate to the library tab within the project
pane.
Click on the livefonts category.
Look for the Fogwriter font.
Drag the Fogwriter font onto the fog layer
within the project pane.
This changes the top text layer into a LiveFont
made of fog.
Move down to the timing pane and move the
playhead indicator forward a bit so you can
see the fogwriter font draw onto the screen.
Within the canvas window, stretch out the
fog layer to it closely matches the text underneath
it.
Navigate over to the project pane and click
on the inspector tab.
Then move down and click on the text tab and
then the format tab.
Find the livefont timing parameter.
Adjust the speed so it's 200%
Adjust the sequence parameter to a value of
around 5%.
Within the timing pane, drag the bottom text
layer forward 18 frames.
This is where our bottom text layer should
start to fade up.
Navigate to the add behavior button within
the toolbar and select text-basic, fade characters
left in.
Okay, that's it, Go ahead and play the animation.
Now, if the timing of fade behavior doesn't
match the timing of your livefont, you'll
need to adjust the behavior within the timing
pane until you can get things to match up.
You may also need to experiment with these
controls within the project pane to get the
fade up behavior to match the timing of the
fog.
For other great tips like this, check our
our expanded video tutorials that are for
rent, or take a hands-on training class with
GeniusDV.